# Experimental compilation of a ConCert smart contract to Wasm (Concordium)

## Setup and versions
The binary `certicoqwasm/src/COUNTER_MODULE.wasm` is generated by CertiCoq-Wasm using:
- Coq 8.17
- MetaCoq v1.3-8.17
- [ConCert](https://github.com/womeier/ConCert) (95d1c12)
- [CertiCoq-Wasm](https://github.com/womeier/certicoqwasm/tree/demo_smartcontracts) (demo_smartcontracts)

## Running it
### Node.js demo
One only needs Node.js 22 installed. The files are located in `node/`,
the Wasm file is generated by standard CertiCoq-Wasm (an old version, but the current one would likey also work with small fixes).

Type `make run-node` to run.

### Running local tests
One needs Rust (e.g. version 1.77.2, but shouldn't matter I guess), wasm-tools, wabt installed.

Type `make run-concordium-test` to run, this will run the
smart contract extracted via CertiCoq-Wasm (Concordium blockchain API bindings are hand-written).

### Deploying to Concordium testnet
See [here](./deployment) for more information.

## Comparison
Different versions of the counter contract on Concordium testnet.

### LOC of the .wat file.
- hand-written contract from concordium testsuite: 57
- rust-extraction (generated by rustc): 5,894
- certicoqwasm:  18,757 (of which 190 lines hand-written, rest is verified)

### Size of .wasm file
- hand-written contract from concordium testsuite: 0.5 KB
- rust-extraction (generated by rustc): ~14KB
- certicoqwasm: ~37KB

### Cost of incrementing by 1 once:
- hand-written contract from concordium testsuite: 0.040715 CCD (577 NRG).
- rust-extraction: 0.067706 CCD (961 NRG)
- certicoqwasm: 0.101952 CCD (1510 NRG)
